# Python environment

To get started, install Python 3.8+, python3-pip, and python3-venv, then create
a virtual environment and install our Python dependencies:

```console
$ python3 -m venv venv
$ . venv/bin/activate
$ pip install -r requirements-(master|worker).txt
```

If you're installing the master, use `requirements-master.txt`; if you're
installing a worker, use `requirements-worker.txt`.

# Master configuration

## Web server settings

Using your production-quality web server of choice (Apache, Nginx, etc.), choose
a URL at which to host the master. Call this `BUILDBOT_WWW`. Then, set up a
reverse proxy for the buildbot webserver (on port 8012). For Apache, your
configuration might look like:

```
ProxyPass /ws ws://localhost:8012/ws
ProxyPassReverse /ws ws://localhost:8012/ws
ProxyPass / http://localhost:8012/
ProxyPassReverse / http://localhost:8012/

SetEnvIf X-Url-Scheme https HTTPS=1
ProxyPreserveHost On
```

Note that you will need to enable `proxy_wstunnel` for this to work (via
`a2enmod`). It is essential that HTTPS only is used (for security).

**Close port 8012 to the internet.** If you can't have port 9990 open, redirect
another port to it. Whichever port this is, call it `MASTER_PORT`.

Make a note of your master's IP address. Call this `MASTER_ADDR`.

## Secrets

Four secrets control authentication with external users and servers. These will
need to be determined before starting up a new master.

1. Obtain a [GitHub personal access token](https://github.com/settings/tokens)
   with at least the `repo` scope enabled (other scopes that are not currently
   used but might be later are `write:packages` and `delete:packages`). Call
   this `GITHUB_TOKEN`.
2. Generate a secret for the workers to authenticate with the master. Call this
   `WORKER_SECRET`.
3. Generate a secret to authenticate GitHub's webhook updates with the master.
   Call this `WEBHOOK_SECRET`.
4. Choose a password for the `halidenightly` user to authenticate with the web
   interface. Call this `WWW_PASSWORD`.

A convenient command for generating a secure secret is `openssl rand -hex 20`.

## GitHub Configuration

Make your way to the Webhooks section of your repository settings. The url is
`https://github.com/{owner}/{repo}/settings/hooks`. The following settings are
the correct ones:

1. **Payload URL:** `$BUILDBOT_WWW/change_hook/github`
2. **Content type:** `application/json`
3. **Secret:** `$WEBHOOK_SECRET`
4. **SSL verification:** Select _Enable SSL verification_
5. **Which events would you like to trigger this webhook?**
   a. **Let me select individual events.** Check _"Pull requests"_
   and _"Pushes"_.

## Starting the master

First, write all the secrets to the corresponding files:

```console
$ echo "$GITHUB_TOKEN" > master/github_token.txt
$ echo "$WORKER_SECRET" > master/halide_bb_pass.txt
$ echo "$WEBHOOK_SECRET" > master/webhook_token.txt
$ echo "$WWW_PASSWORD" > master/buildbot_www_pass.txt
```

Then, create a database for the master to save its work. This only needs to be
done once.

```console
$ buildbot upgrade-master master
```

Choose a directory to hold artifacts for package runs:

```console
$ export HALIDE_BB_MASTER_ARTIFACTS_DIR=/srv/www/buildbot/public_html/artifacts
```

Finally, start the master!

```console
$ buildbot start master
```

# Worker configuration

## Worker dependencies

### Windows

TODO: vcpkg?

### Ubuntu

TODO: What is the apt package list to install?

### macOS

Use homebrew to install other dependencies. You want at least:

```console
$ brew install ccache libpng libjpeg doxygen
```

For macOS and Linux, once ccache is installed, it's helpful to configure it like
so:

```console
$ ccache --set-config=sloppiness=pch_defines,time_macros
$ ccache -M 20G  # or smaller, depending on disk size
```

The first command allows CCache to work in the presence of precompiled headers.
The second sets the cache size to something very large (20GB in this case).

## Starting a worker

The master recognizes workers by their reported names, eg. `linux-worker-4` or
`win-worker-1`. To launch the buildbot daemon on the worker named
`$WORKER_NAME`, run the following commands after setting up the Python
environment as detailed above:

```console
$ echo "$WORKER_SECRET" > worker/halide_bb_pass.txt
$ export HALIDE_BB_WORKER_NAME=$WORKER_NAME  # required
$ export HALIDE_BB_MASTER_ADDR=$MASTER_ADDR  # default = public Halide master
$ export HALIDE_BB_MASTER_PORT=$MASTER_PORT  # default = 9990
$ buildbot-worker start worker
```

# Dependency management

Our `requirements*.txt` files are generated by [uv](https://docs.astral.sh/uv).
This tool allows us to maintain a consistent dependency set across the master
and workers. The source of truth for our dependencies are the lists of
_constraints_ in `pyproject.toml`; this is the only dependency-related file that
should be manually edited. When it's time to upgrade anything, run the following
commands:

```console
$ uv sync --all-extras --upgrade
$ uv export --extra master --no-dev --no-emit-project -o requirements-master.txt
$ uv export --extra worker --no-dev --no-emit-project -o requirements-worker.txt
```

The first command will update `uv.lock`, which contains a full, consistent
resolution of all our dependencies. The next two commands update the master and
worker requirements files with their specific fragment.
